---
title: Billy Joel's Blog
date: 2022-12-17 18:32:00 -0500
categories: [Walkthrough, Tryhackme, CTF]
tags: [cve-2019-8943, wordpress, blog, web]
---

<https://tryhackme.com/room/blog> billy joel made a wordpress blog.

# Notes

Billy Joel thinks he's hot shit and made a blog. Our task is to enumerate the machine and find 2 flags. He also has some weird shit going on in his laptop and we need to watch for rabbit holes.

Start by `nano /etc/hosts` and adding the blog to our hosts file.

Also started an nmap scan and with `smbclient` we find some strange files, probably the rabbit hole, but save them for later regardless.

Going to start some gobuster scans.

- `gobuster dir -u http://blog.thm -w /usr/share/seclists/Discovery/Web-Content/common.txt -t 100 -x txt,php`

nothing really here other than robots.txt.

running wpscan give us wordpress 5.0 which has a few exploits in searchsploit. one is a metasploit plugin `WordPress Core 5.0.0 - Crop-image Shell Upload (Metasploit) php/remote/46662.rb` running this looks like we need a username and password.

running hydra on bjoel seems to take a while maybe kwheel will return results.

- `hydra -l kwheel -P /usr/share/seclists/Passwords/rockyou.txt blog.thm http-form-post "/wp-login.php:log=^USER^&pwd=^PASS^&wp-submit=Log+in&testcookie=1:The password you entered"`

and we get a pass kwheel:cutiepie1 with these creds we can run the shell upload exploit in metasploit console and get a www-data shell.

`sudo -l` gives us nothing but `find -perm -u=s 2>/dev/null` gives us a file called checker. checking the operation of this file it seems to be a code to check if we are admin or not.

setting our admin enviroment variable to 1 `export admin=1` will setiud(0) and spawn us a root shell.

we can then use `find` to see the user.txt is stored in `/media/usb/`, then `cat /root/root.txt` for the final flag.
