---
title: nmap Live Host Discovery
date: 2022-06-15 18:32:00 -0500
categories: [Lesson, Tutorial]
tags: [nmap, Enumeration, TryHackMe]
---

Learn how to use Nmap to discover live hosts using ARP scan, ICMP scan, and TCP/UDP ping scan.

[https://tryhackme.com/room/nmap01](https://tryhackme.com/room/nmap01)

* * *

## Task 1 - Introduction

When we want to target a network, we want to find an efficient tool to help us handle repetitive tasks and answer the following questions:

   - Which systems are up?
   - What services are running on these systems?

* * * 

## Task 2 - Subnetworks 

Send a packet with the following:

   - From computer1
   - To computer1 (to indicate it is broadcast)
   - Packet Type: “ARP Request”
   - Data: computer6 (because we are asking for computer6 MAC address using ARP Request)

**How many devices can see the ARP Request?** 4

**Did computer6 receive the ARP Request? (Y/N)** n

Send a packet with the following:

   - From computer4
   - To computer4 (to indicate it is broadcast)
   - Packet Type: “ARP Request”
   - Data: computer6 (because we are asking for computer6 MAC address using ARP Request)

**How many devices can see the ARP Request?** 4

**Did computer6 reply to the ARP Request? (Y/N)** y

* * * 

## Task 3 Enumerating Targets 

**What is the first IP address Nmap would scan if you provided 10.10.12.13/29 as your target?** 

``nmap -sL -n 10.10.12.13/29`` 10.10.12.8

**How many IP addresses will Nmap scan if you provide the following range 10.10.0-255.101-125?** 

``nmap -sL -n 10.10.0-255.101-125`` 6400

* * * 

## Task 4 - Discovering Live Hosts 

Send a packet with the following:

   - From computer1
   - To computer3
   - Packet Type: “Ping Request”

**What is the type of packet that computer1 sent before the ping?** ARP request

**What is the type of packet that computer1 received before being able to send the ping?** ARP Response

**How many computers responded to the ping request?** 1

Send a packet with the following:

   - From computer2
   - To computer5
   - Packet Type: “Ping Request”

**What is the name of the first device that responded to the first ARP Request?** Router

**What is the name of the first device that responded to the second ARP Request?** Computer 5

**Send another Ping Request. Did it require new ARP Requests? (Y/N)** N

* * * 

## Task 5 - Nmap Host Discovery Using ARP 

We learn to use a few useful tools here:

- ``sudo arp-scan -l`` will send ARP queries to all IP address on local network
- ``sudo arp-scan -I eth0 -l``

We will be sending broadcast ARP Requests packets with the following options:

   - From computer1
   - To computer1 (to indicate it is broadcast)
   - Packet Type: “ARP Request”
   - Data: try all the possible eight devices (other than computer1) in the network: computer2, computer3, computer4, computer5, computer6, switch1, switch2, and router.

**How many devices are you able to discover using ARP requests?** 3

* * * 

## Task 6 - Nmap Host Discovery Using ICMP 

We learn a few new flags for Nmap host discovery:

- ``-PP`` tells nmap to use ICMP Timestamp to discover live hosts
- ``-PM`` tells nmap to use ICMP address mask to discover live hosts
- ``-PE`` tells nmap to use ICMP echo to discover live hosts

* * * 

## Task 7 - Nmap Host Discovery Using TCP and UDP 

More useful flags

- ``-PS#`` tells nmap to use TCP/SYN ping where # is the port
- ``-PA#`` tells nmap to use TCP/ACK ping 
- ``-PU`` for UDP ping

Also ``masscan`` can be used for all of the above but need a port specified.

**Which TCP ping scan does not require a privileged account?** TCP SYN Ping

**Which TCP ping scan requires a privileged account?** TCP ACK Ping

**What option do you need to add to Nmap to run a TCP SYN ping scan on the telnet port?** -PS23

* * * 

## Task 8 - Using Reverse-DNS Lookup 

By default, Nmap will look up online hosts; however, you can use the option ``-R`` to query the DNS server even for offline hosts. If you want to use a specific DNS server, you can add the ``--dns-servers DNS_SERVER`` option.

* * * 

## Task 9 - Summary 

List of useful commands and options from this room:

| Scan Type | Example Command |
|-----------|-----------------|
| ARP Scan | ``sudo nmap -PR -sn MACHINE_IP/24`` |
| ICMP Echo Scan | ``sudo nmap -PE -sn MACHINE_IP/24`` |
| ICMP Timestamp Scan | ``sudo nmap -PP -sn MACHINE_IP/24`` |
| ICMP Address Mask Scan | ``sudo nmap -PM -sn MACHINE_IP/24`` |
| TCP SYN Ping Scan | ``sudo nmap -PS22,80,443 -sn MACHINE_IP/30`` |
| TCP ACK Ping Scan | ``sudo nmap -PA22,80,443 -sn MACHINE_IP/30`` |
| UDP Ping Scan | ``sudo nmap -PU53,161,162 -sn MACHINE_IP/30`` |

Remember to add -sn if you are only interested in host discovery without port-scanning. Omitting -sn will let Nmap default to port-scanning the live hosts.

| Option | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| -n | no DNS lookup |
| -R | reverse-DNS lookup for all hosts |
| -sn | host discovery only |

* * * 






